Ansys integration example (#100)
pasteurlabs/tesseract-jax: examples/ansys/forum.md

# Grid fin optimization with ANSYS SpaceClaim and PyANSYS

We want to perform a parameter optimization on a SpaceX-style grid fin geometry to maximize stiffness while maintaining a strict mass limit. This ensures the fin remains rigid during re-entry Max-Q (maximum dynamic pressure) for robust aerodynamic control. The 3D mesh looks as follows:

![Workflow](imgs/grid_mesh.png)

> ![Workflow](imgs/boundary_conditions.png)

Author: damn all this time I thought its van lol

To demonstrate a realistic engineering workflow, we demonstrate a gradient based end to optimization that plugs into ANSYS Spaceclaim as a design software and uses PyANSYS to setup a differentiable finite element simulation. The workflow involves three Tesseracts:

- **Ansys SpaceClaim Tesseract** takes a set of differentiable and non differentiable parameters and injects them into a SpaceClaim script that generates the grid fin geometry. It then returns returns the resulting triangular surface mesh as a list of points and faces. More about this here: ...

> - **SDF & Finite Difference Tesseract** takes the same set of geometry parameters, passes them to the Spaceclaim Tesseract (Or any other Tesseract that returns a polygon mesh) and computes the signed distance field for the geometry on a regular grid. Additionally, the Tesseract is differentiable and computes Jacobian of the SDF field with respect to the design space parameters using finite differences. It has some additional features, such as precomputing the Jacobian while the rest of the pipeline is busy with computing primals and vector jacobian products (vjp) of later steps. In theory, we can plug any Tesseract that conforms to the in and output schema of the SpaceClaim Tesseract.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **SDF & Finite Difference Tesseract** takes the same set of geometry parameters, passes them to the SpaceClaim Tesseract (could be any other Tesseract that returns a polygon mesh) and computes the signed distance field for the geometry on a regular grid. Additionally, the Tesseract is differentiable and computes Jacobian of the SDF field with respect to the design space parameters using finite differences. It has some additional features, such as precomputing the Jacobian while the rest of the pipeline is busy with computing primals and vector Jacobian products (vjp) of later steps. In theory, we can plug any Tesseract that conforms to the in and output schema of the SpaceClaim Tesseract.
```
